content/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey.mdx, before:

---
draft: false
locale: en
date: 2023-07-30T01:48:39.903Z
title: 'My Ideal Desk Setup: A Personal Journey'
description: Join me as I take you on a tour of my ideal desk setup, showing how it has evolved over the years, and how it enhances my productivity and creative pursuits.
preview:
  url: /images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/desk-setup-front.jpg
  alt: null
author: David Dias
tags:
  - dev-journal
categories:
  - productivity
type: article
slug: ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey
---

I first embarked on my journey to create the perfect desk setup in 2018, when I made the big move from [Mauritius](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mauritius) to Canada.

The notion of an ideal desk setup has always been a tantalizing dream of mine. But when can we honestly say, "This is it, this is the setup I always wanted."? Well, there's no definitive answer to that. However, after a few years of relentless experimentation, I can confidently say that I'm truly happy with what I have.

I have always been passionate in exploring different areas of knowledge. Which is somehow reflected in all my past experiences. Most people focus on one specific domain of expertise and become experts in it. Even I have my expertises, I'm always looking to explore new domains. And this is what you will see reflected in my different desk setups.

(Check out the list of all the gear I use at https://kit.co/thedaviddias)

## Daily desk setup

Yes, my desk is usually that clean! No kidding! Almost every morning or night, I make a habit of removing from my desk what I don't need, like a cup of tea or the last letter that came in the mail.

![](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/daily-setup-01.jpg)

What makes a desk setup almost perfect? It just has to be a place where you feel comfortable and productive! I don't like having a space cluttered with things I don't really need. I am always trying to figure out how I can replace a specific function with a smaller or more minimalistic piece of gear. It's sometimes hard to strike a balance between minimalism and productivity, but I think I am getting there.

My main computers (both personal and professional) are Macs. My personal one is a **[MacBook M1 Max, 14-inch from 2021 with 32 GB of RAM and a 2 TB hard drive](https://www.apple.com/macbook-pro-14-and-16/)**. And of course, I added a [DBrand skin](https://dbrand.com/shop/apple-macbook-pro-14-skins-2021#/customizer/edit/design) called "Top Skin Hyperblack Titanium" for the top and Matte Black for the bottom.

As you can see in the picture above, I work with [two screens](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/ultimate-desk-setup-unleashing-productivity/dell-p2720dc-27-16) instead of one. Many people I know are fans of wide, curved screens. I've tried it, but I constantly put my apps in full screen and you can't do that without a window management app.

I love mechanical keyboards! I have multiple ones, but the one I chose for my setup is the [Keychron K3 Ultra-Slim 75%](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/ultimate-desk-setup-unleashing-productivity/keychron-k3-version). It's thin and wireless. The keys don't make too much noise, which is important when you are in a meeting. I use it in combination with the [Logitech MX Master 3S](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/ultimate-desk-setup-unleashing-productivity/6718058-logitech-mx-master-3).

## Music desk setup

I have studied and played music for more than 10 years. But for many years, I didn't touch a single instrument. 2-3 years ago, I decided to get back to it. I initially bought the Novation Mini [MK3]. It was nice creating some songs in [Ableton](https://www.ableton.com/) with it, but I quickly felt that I needed normal keys. After weeks of research and comparison, I chose the [Novation Launchkey 49 MK3](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/office-extras-gearing-up-for-ultimate-efficiency/6718487-novation-launchkey-4).

![](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/music-setup-01.jpg)

I'm fortunate enough to afford access to [Kontakt and Komplete Standard edition](https://www.native-instruments.com/en/catalog/) from Native Instruments. They have so many instruments, I'm still exploring them all!

## Electronics desk setup

I started tinkering with electronics in 2011. I have left many electronic gears in every country and place I lived in! I have built a lot of unfinished projects. These days, time is the only thing that is missing to finish them. But I still love playing with electronics. I have the amazing Weller Digital Soldering Station (WE1010NA) and a few boxes filled with tools and components. I might write an article exclusively about my tools!

![](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/electronics-setup-01.jpg)

Ironically, what took me a long time to find was the magnifying glass. I had a specific idea in mind. I finally found one that seems to be using exactly the same arm as Rode. Funny.

Maybe one day I will have a dedicated desk for electronics. But for now, I'm happy with what I have.

## Craft desk setup

I wish I was a better artist! At least, I've been trying! I have a lot of respect for people who can draw, paint, etc... But whenever I can, I try to learn something new. Doing something with my hands is a great way to relax and forget about the computer and coding. I wish I could spend more time doing that.

A few years ago, when I was living in Paris, I would spend a fortune at [Aroma Zone](https://www.aroma-zone.com/). I would make products based on essential oils. I would make my own shampoo, shower gel, etc... I also made my own candles. It was amazing! Unfortunately, in Canada, I've never found a similar shop.

![](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/craft-setup-01.jpg)

## And you, what is your ideal desk setup?

Everyone is different, and our needs and aspirations are different. I am curious to know - what is your ideal desk setup? What do you like to have on your desk? What do you enjoy doing? What is your dream setup?

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <LinkedInEmbed
    url="https://www.linkedin.com/embed/feed/update/urn:li:share:7091183319584833536"
    postUrl="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/thedaviddias_desksetup-homeoffice-desk-activity-7091183321329647616-TrhV?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop"
    width={525}
  />
</div>

Commit message:

fix: multiple issues with articles, seo, image

content/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey.mdx, after:

---
draft: false
locale: en
date: 2023-07-30T01:48:39.903Z
title: 'My Ideal Desk Setup: A Personal Journey'
description: Join me as I take you on a tour of my ideal desk setup, showing how it has evolved over the years, and how it enhances my productivity and creative pursuits.
preview:
  url: /images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/desk-setup-front.jpg
  alt: null
author: David Dias
tags:
  - dev-journal
categories:
  - productivity
type: article
slug: ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey
---

I first embarked on my journey to create the perfect desk setup in 2018, when I made the big move from [Mauritius](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mauritius) to Canada.

The notion of an ideal desk setup has always been a tantalizing dream of mine. But when can we honestly say, "This is it, this is the setup I always wanted."? Well, there's no definitive answer to that. However, after a few years of relentless experimentation, I can confidently say that I'm truly happy with what I have.

I have always been passionate in exploring different areas of knowledge. Which is somehow reflected in all my past experiences. Most people focus on one specific domain of expertise and become experts in it. Even I have my expertises, I'm always looking to explore new domains. And this is what you will see reflected in my different desk setups.

(Check out the list of all the gear I use at https://kit.co/thedaviddias)

## Daily desk setup

Yes, my desk is usually that clean! No kidding! Almost every morning or night, I make a habit of removing from my desk what I don't need, like a cup of tea or the last letter that came in the mail.

![My white standing desk with two monitors (with colorful backgrounds), 2 white speakers, a mixer, an ipad on a stand and Elgato lights](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/daily-setup-01.jpg 'My ideal daily desk setup')

What makes a desk setup almost perfect? It just has to be a place where you feel comfortable and productive! I don't like having a space cluttered with things I don't really need. I am always trying to figure out how I can replace a specific function with a smaller or more minimalistic piece of gear. It's sometimes hard to strike a balance between minimalism and productivity, but I think I am getting there.

My main computers (both personal and professional) are Macs. My personal one is a **[MacBook M1 Max, 14-inch from 2021 with 32 GB of RAM and a 2 TB hard drive](https://www.apple.com/macbook-pro-14-and-16/)**. And of course, I added a [DBrand skin](https://dbrand.com/shop/apple-macbook-pro-14-skins-2021#/customizer/edit/design) called "Top Skin Hyperblack Titanium" for the top and Matte Black for the bottom.

As you can see in the picture above, I work with [two screens](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/ultimate-desk-setup-unleashing-productivity/dell-p2720dc-27-16) instead of one. Many people I know are fans of wide, curved screens. I've tried it, but I constantly put my apps in full screen and you can't do that without a window management app.

I love mechanical keyboards! I have multiple ones, but the one I chose for my setup is the [Keychron K3 Ultra-Slim 75%](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/ultimate-desk-setup-unleashing-productivity/keychron-k3-version). It's thin and wireless. The keys don't make too much noise, which is important when you are in a meeting. I use it in combination with the [Logitech MX Master 3S](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/ultimate-desk-setup-unleashing-productivity/6718058-logitech-mx-master-3).

## Music desk setup

I have studied and played music for more than 10 years. But for many years, I didn't touch a single instrument. 2-3 years ago, I decided to get back to it. I initially bought the Novation Mini [MK3]. It was nice creating some songs in [Ableton](https://www.ableton.com/) with it, but I quickly felt that I needed normal keys. After weeks of research and comparison, I chose the [Novation Launchkey 49 MK3](https://kit.co/thedaviddias/office-extras-gearing-up-for-ultimate-efficiency/6718487-novation-launchkey-4).

![Same desk setup but this time with a Novation Keyboards with 49 keys](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/music-setup-01.jpg 'My ideal music desk setup with my Novation Launchkey 49 MK3')

I'm fortunate enough to afford access to [Kontakt and Komplete Standard edition](https://www.native-instruments.com/en/catalog/) from Native Instruments. They have so many instruments, I'm still exploring them all!

## Electronics desk setup

I started tinkering with electronics in 2011. I have left many electronic gears in every country and place I lived in! I have built a lot of unfinished projects. These days, time is the only thing that is missing to finish them. But I still love playing with electronics. I have the amazing Weller Digital Soldering Station (WE1010NA) and a few boxes filled with tools and components. I might write an article exclusively about my tools!

![](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/electronics-setup-01.jpg)

Ironically, what took me a long time to find was the magnifying glass. I had a specific idea in mind. I finally found one that seems to be using exactly the same arm as Rode. Funny.

Maybe one day I will have a dedicated desk for electronics. But for now, I'm happy with what I have.

## Craft desk setup

I wish I was a better artist! At least, I've been trying! I have a lot of respect for people who can draw, paint, etc... But whenever I can, I try to learn something new. Doing something with my hands is a great way to relax and forget about the computer and coding. I wish I could spend more time doing that.

A few years ago, when I was living in Paris, I would spend a fortune at [Aroma Zone](https://www.aroma-zone.com/). I would make products based on essential oils. I would make my own shampoo, shower gel, etc... I also made my own candles. It was amazing! Unfortunately, in Canada, I've never found a similar shop.

![](/images/articles/ideal-desk-setup-personal-journey/craft-setup-01.jpg)

## And you, what is your ideal desk setup?

Everyone is different, and our needs and aspirations are different. I am curious to know - what is your ideal desk setup? What do you like to have on your desk? What do you enjoy doing? What is your dream setup?

<div style={{ display: 'flex', justifyContent: 'center' }}>
  <LinkedInEmbed
    url="https://www.linkedin.com/embed/feed/update/urn:li:share:7091183319584833536"
    postUrl="https://www.linkedin.com/posts/thedaviddias_desksetup-homeoffice-desk-activity-7091183321329647616-TrhV?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop"
    width={525}
  />
</div>
