content/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer.mdx, before:

---
draft: false
locale: en
title: Raycast Applications That Will Make You a Super Developer!
date: 2023-06-12T23:59:58.501Z
description: Raycast is one of the best tool if you want to speed up your productivity on Mac. Here are the 10 applications I use the most in Raycast, on a daily basis.
author: David Dias
categories:
  - productivity
tags:
  - github
  - raycast
  - vercel
  - visual-studio-code
type: article
preview:
  url: /images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/featured.jpg
  alt: A search bar shows results for "1Password" in a macOS launcher. Suggestions include applications like 1Password, Google Chrome, and FaceTime, alongside commands like "Search Deployments" and "Search Documentation."
slug: raycast-applications-super-developer
---

Spolight on Mac is great, but it always lacked the possibility to add custom commands and third party access. And that's where [Alfred](https://www.alfredapp.com/) comes in. It's a great application that allows you to do just that. I have been a big fan of "Alfred" at least since 2015. I would recommend this application to anyone who wants to be more productive on their Mac. I was a big fan!

But few months ago, one of my colleague talked to me about [Raycast](https://raycast.com/). Eager to always find better tools and expand my productivity, I decided to give it a try. The first thing I noticed was the speed. Not that "Alfred" is slow, but Raycast was just blazing fast!

I was hooked! And when I found out that all the applications were build in TypeScript, this was the cherry on the cake! After a few weeks now using it, I don't see myself going back.

And today, I wanted to share with you the 10 applications I use the most in Raycast, on a daily basis. Those applications are more towards developers but I highly recommend you to check Raycast out (it's free)

## One Password

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-1password.jpg)

[1Password](https://www.raycast.com/khasbilegt/1password) has been my password manager for many years. I can search, copy username or password, open the website. The only annoying part is the fact that [1Password](https://1password.com/) always ask me to give access to the application. Annoying but still useful.

## TailwindCSS Docs

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-tailwind-docs.jpg)

I use [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and nothing better than opening the TailwindCSS documentation directly from Raycast. I could search directly on the website but this saves me some clicks.

## Github

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-github.jpg)

Open pull requests, notifications, discussions from [Github](https://www.raycast.com/raycast/github)... I can also search directly repositories from Raycast.

## Spotify

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-spotify.jpg)

Play, pause, stop, next... I can [control Spotify](https://www.raycast.com/thomas/spotify-controls) directly from Raycast. This is something I was always using on Alfred, couldn't approve Raycast if I didn't have this option.

## Raindrop

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-raindrop.jpg)

Raindrops is my favourite bookmark manager. The kind of tool that constantly adds new features. I can search, open, add new bookmarks directly from Raycast with the [Raindrop](https://www.raycast.com/lardissone/raindrop-io) application.

## Vercel

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-vercel-deployments.jpg)

I love seeing the status of [my deployment on Vercel](https://www.raycast.com/vercel/vercast) from Raycast. Can directly open my projects too.

## Visual Studio Code

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-vscode.jpg)

I use "[Visual Studio Code](https://www.raycast.com/thomas/visual-studio-code)" Raycast App in combinaison with "[Project Manager](https://www.raycast.com/MarkusLanger/vscode-project-manager)" to quickly access all my projects in an instant.

## Bonus: Clipboard History

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-clipboard.jpg)

This is not an application, but a feature I loved on Alfred and actually exists on Raycast, even it's slighly less powerful.

"Clipboard History" give you access to your last copied items. I've assign the double `⌥` (action) key to open the clipboard history. This is a feature I use constantly, and I'm glad it's available on Raycast.

Commit message:

fix: add bigger article descriptions

content/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer.mdx, after:

---
draft: false
locale: en
title: Raycast Applications That Will Make You a Super Developer!
date: 2023-06-12T23:59:58.501Z
description: Raycast is one of the best tools for supercharging your productivity on Mac, offering a wide range of customizable commands and third-party integrations. In this article, I'll share the top 10 Raycast applications I use daily, demonstrating how they can transform you into a super developer by streamlining your workflow and boosting efficiency.
author: David Dias
categories:
  - productivity
tags:
  - github
  - raycast
  - vercel
  - visual-studio-code
type: article
preview:
  url: /images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/featured.jpg
  alt: A search bar shows results for "1Password" in a macOS launcher. Suggestions include applications like 1Password, Google Chrome, and FaceTime, alongside commands like "Search Deployments" and "Search Documentation."
slug: raycast-applications-super-developer
---

Spolight on Mac is great, but it always lacked the possibility to add custom commands and third party access. And that's where [Alfred](https://www.alfredapp.com/) comes in. It's a great application that allows you to do just that. I have been a big fan of "Alfred" at least since 2015. I would recommend this application to anyone who wants to be more productive on their Mac. I was a big fan!

But few months ago, one of my colleague talked to me about [Raycast](https://raycast.com/). Eager to always find better tools and expand my productivity, I decided to give it a try. The first thing I noticed was the speed. Not that "Alfred" is slow, but Raycast was just blazing fast!

I was hooked! And when I found out that all the applications were build in TypeScript, this was the cherry on the cake! After a few weeks now using it, I don't see myself going back.

And today, I wanted to share with you the 10 applications I use the most in Raycast, on a daily basis. Those applications are more towards developers but I highly recommend you to check Raycast out (it's free)

## One Password

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-1password.jpg)

[1Password](https://www.raycast.com/khasbilegt/1password) has been my password manager for many years. I can search, copy username or password, open the website. The only annoying part is the fact that [1Password](https://1password.com/) always ask me to give access to the application. Annoying but still useful.

## TailwindCSS Docs

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-tailwind-docs.jpg)

I use [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) and nothing better than opening the TailwindCSS documentation directly from Raycast. I could search directly on the website but this saves me some clicks.

## Github

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-github.jpg)

Open pull requests, notifications, discussions from [Github](https://www.raycast.com/raycast/github)... I can also search directly repositories from Raycast.

## Spotify

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-spotify.jpg)

Play, pause, stop, next... I can [control Spotify](https://www.raycast.com/thomas/spotify-controls) directly from Raycast. This is something I was always using on Alfred, couldn't approve Raycast if I didn't have this option.

## Raindrop

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-raindrop.jpg)

Raindrops is my favourite bookmark manager. The kind of tool that constantly adds new features. I can search, open, add new bookmarks directly from Raycast with the [Raindrop](https://www.raycast.com/lardissone/raindrop-io) application.

## Vercel

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-vercel-deployments.jpg)

I love seeing the status of [my deployment on Vercel](https://www.raycast.com/vercel/vercast) from Raycast. Can directly open my projects too.

## Visual Studio Code

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-vscode.jpg)

I use "[Visual Studio Code](https://www.raycast.com/thomas/visual-studio-code)" Raycast App in combinaison with "[Project Manager](https://www.raycast.com/MarkusLanger/vscode-project-manager)" to quickly access all my projects in an instant.

## Bonus: Clipboard History

![](/images/articles/raycast-applications-super-developer/raycast-clipboard.jpg)

This is not an application, but a feature I loved on Alfred and actually exists on Raycast, even it's slighly less powerful.

"Clipboard History" give you access to your last copied items. I've assign the double `⌥` (action) key to open the clipboard history. This is a feature I use constantly, and I'm glad it's available on Raycast.
